# Lecture 1: Introductory Lecture.

Materials covered in Lecture 1:
* Racket demo
    * [0177.rkt](0117.rkt)

### Ladies and Gentlemen, Start Your Engines!

> Perlis epigram 19: A language that doesn't affect the way you think about programming is not worth knowing.

The language we'll use this term, Racket, is an offshoot of Scheme, which is an offshoot of LISP, which was designed as a higher-level language for writing artificial intelligence programs. We choose Racket because it is high-level, functional (as opposed to imperative), emphasizes recursion, and is unfamiliar to almost all students taking CPSC 201. It is definitely not widely used in industry. One goal is for you to learn new tools and paradigms for programming, to "affect the way you think about programming." It will be frustrating at times -- no assignment statements, no obvious analogs of for and while statements -- but it will expand your view of what programming can be.

We conclude with a gentle demonstration of Scheme (Racket) in action: [0117.rkt](0117.rkt) in which we do the following:

*   define a list comprising 10 digits
*   define a function, num-to-word, which takes a single digit, num, and returns the corresponding English word, e.g.,
    
    (num-to-word 9) ==> "nine"
    
*   define a function, word-to-num, which is the inverse of num-to-word. Note that we define a sub-function within the function itself. The sub-function, find-index, is recursive.
*   We use the built-in racket function **map** which applies the specified functional argument to every element of the specified list, returning a list of the results. The map function is based on the [map in mathematics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Map_(mathematics)), which in turn was derived from a geographical map: mapping the Earth surface to a sheet of paper.
*   We then try out the functions.
*   Here is [a transcript of today's class](0117.script).
*   Here is [jupyter notebook version of today's class](Introduction.html).

### The Big Picture

There is a standard scheme for giving a talk.

1.  Tell the audience what you plan to tell them.
2.  Tell them.
3.  Tell them what you told them.

Today we are at step 1.

To some of you, the organization of topics in this course may seem hazy, like the shadows in Plato's cave. I want to assure you that, like in [Blackadder](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Blackadder), there is a cunning plan.

> For years, academic computer scientists have debated the role of programming in introductory computer science courses. Many have argued that an introductory science course should expose the student to the great ideas of the discipline. Thus, an introductory biology course should cover topics such as evolution and molecular genetics, but not how to build a microscope. Accordingly, a computer science course should emphasize the major intellectual issues of computing, not how to write programs.
> 
> We do not agree with this position. First, programming is a major intellectual issue in computer science. Second, the comparison of programming to building a microscope misses the point. Writing programs in computer science is more like building a living organism in biology. If biology had advanced to a stage that permitted introductory students easily to construct amoebas and clams and roses and rabbits, there would be little debate over the intellectual content of such exercises. (Slade, _The T Programming Language_, 1987)

Here is the our framework.

*   Progamming and recursion. Learning racket allows us to have a grounded conversation.
*   Turing Machines. What are the limits to computing?
*   Boolean functions. What are the logical atomic elements of computation on which machines are built?
*   Gates and circuits. How do we wire up circuits?
*   TC 201 and computer architecture. How do we build a computer?
*   Strings and formal languages. How do we translate high level source code into machine language?
*   Computational complexity. Being computable is not sufficient if the algorithm is not efficient. How do we analyze algorithms?

For the next few months, we will execute step 2. On April 28th, I will execute step 3.

Note: there are three other rules for public speaking...

### Racket

[Racket](racket.md)

#### Getting to know UNIX

[UNIX Introduction](UNIX.md)